settings.network: add new proxy settings (#1204)
bottlerocket-os/bottlerocket: README.md

* `settings.updates.version-lock`: Controls the version that will be selected when you issue an update request.  Can be locked to a specific version like `v1.0.0`, or `latest` to take the latest available version.  Defaults to `latest`.
* `settings.updates.ignore-waves`: Updates are rolled out in waves to reduce the impact of issues.  For testing purposes, you can set this to `true` to ignore those waves and update immediately.

#### Network settings

##### Proxy settings

These settings will configure the proxying behavior of the following services:
* For all variants:
    * [containerd.service](packages/containerd/containerd.service)
    * [host-containerd.service](packages/host-ctr/host-containerd.service)
* For Kubernetes variants:
    * [kubelet.service](packages/kubernetes-1.18/kubelet.service)

> * For ECS variants:

Reviewer: Since there's only one ECS variant, should we say "For the ECS variant"?

    * [docker.service](packages/docker-engine/docker.service)
    * [ecs.service](packages/ecs-agent/ecs.service)

* `settings.network.http-proxy`: The HTTP proxy server to be used by services listed above.

> * `settings.network.https-proxy`: The HTTPS proxy server to be used by services listed above.

Reviewer: Do we want these to be separately-configurable at this point?

Author: I can't really think of a use-case for configuring `http_proxy` and `https_proxy` differently. But then again there really is no harm in letting them be separately-configurable.

Reviewer: It's more overhead for someone who wants to enable a proxy; now they have to configure both.  My preference is to have just one right now and we can always add a second one later if it becomes desirable.

Author: Would we still be setting the `HTTPS_PROXY` env var? Setting `HTTPS_PROXY` to the same contents as what's being set for `HTTP_PROXY`?

Reviewer 2: > Would we still be setting the HTTPS_PROXY env var? Setting HTTPS_PROXY to the same contents as what's being set for HTTP_PROXY?

Yep.

Perhaps the hardest question - what to call the setting?  :P

Reviewer: Yeah, same value for both.  I'd probably call the setting "https-proxy" to imply that the proxy needs to be able to transparently handle TLS traffic.

Author: What if the user wants to use a http proxy that can't handle https traffic though? Wouldn't `https-proxy` be misleading and discourage the user from using the setting?

Reviewer: If we're using the same setting for both, the proxy needs to be able to handle HTTPS traffic.  I think the naming should reflect that.

Most of the traffic that will be generated from the software in Bottlerocket (pulling container images, log forwarding, talking to API endpoints) is going to be over HTTPS.  cri-containerd and Docker both require HTTPS when pulling images (without manual overrides that we don't enable in Bottlerocket), and the Kubelet and ECS agent talk to their respective API endpoints over HTTPS as well.

> By default, this is set to `["localhost", "127.0.0.1", "169.254.169.254" (Instance Metadata Service endpoint)]`.

Reviewer 2: I think having these in `defaults.toml` might be overly complicating things, actually.  Could there be a case where someone wants to proxy these?  (We shouldn't encourage proxying IMDS, and proxying localhost seems... breaky.)

Can we just put these in the EnvironmentFile?  Then the user doesn't have to repeat all these to set their own no-proxy values, which would be a bad experience.  And we can simplify the README here a bit.  (And the handlebars logic in proxy-env, similar to my suggestion in ecs.config.)

* `settings.network.no-proxy`: A list of hosts that are excluded from proxying.

> The no-proxy list will automatically include entries for localhost, the instance metadata service, the Amazon ECS task metadata endpoint and the Docker socket path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The no-proxy list will automatically include entries for localhost, the instance metadata service, the Amazon ECS task metadata endpoint, and the Docker socket path.
```
(this is my hill and I will die on it)

* `settings.updates.ignore-waves`: Updates are rolled out in waves to reduce the impact of issues.  For testing purposes, you can set this to `true` to ignore those waves and update immediately.

#### Network settings

These settings will impact the networking behavior of the following services:
* For all variants:
    * [containerd.service](packages/containerd/containerd.service)
    * [host-containerd.service](packages/host-ctr/host-containerd.service)
* For Kubernetes variants:
    * [kubelet.service](packages/kubernetes-1.18/kubelet.service)
* For ECS variants:
    * [docker.service](packages/docker-engine/docker.service)
    * [ecs.service](packages/ecs-agent/ecs.service)

* `settings.network.http-proxy`: The HTTP proxy server to be used by services listed above.
* `settings.network.https-proxy`: The HTTPS proxy server to be used by services listed above.
* `settings.network.no-proxy`: A list of hosts that are excluded from proxying.
Here are a few values you normally want to set for this setting when setting up proxies:
    * "localhost" and "127.0.0.1" for loopback

>     * Instance metadata endpoint (e.g. "169.254.169.254" for Amazon EC2 Instance metadata data service)

Reviewer 2: Let's make these defaults, since there are almost no cases in which someone *wouldn't* want these, and if they don't, they can set no-proxy.

* `settings.updates.version-lock`: Controls the version that will be selected when you issue an update request.  Can be locked to a specific version like `v1.0.0`, or `latest` to take the latest available version.  Defaults to `latest`.
* `settings.updates.ignore-waves`: Updates are rolled out in waves to reduce the impact of issues.  For testing purposes, you can set this to `true` to ignore those waves and update immediately.

> #### Network settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Network settings

##### Proxy settings
```

These settings will configure the networking behavior of the following services:
* For all variants:
    * [containerd.service](packages/containerd/containerd.service)
    * [host-containerd.service](packages/host-ctr/host-containerd.service)
* For Kubernetes variants:
    * [kubelet.service](packages/kubernetes-1.18/kubelet.service)
* For ECS variants:
    * [docker.service](packages/docker-engine/docker.service)
    * [ecs.service](packages/ecs-agent/ecs.service)

* `settings.network.http-proxy`: The HTTP proxy server to be used by services listed above.
* `settings.network.https-proxy`: The HTTPS proxy server to be used by services listed above.

> * `settings.network.no-proxy`: A list of hosts that are excluded from proxying.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `settings.network.no-proxy`: A comma-separated list of hosts that are excluded from proxying.
```

Author: Specifying "comma-separated" gives the impression that this setting is a single line string when in fact it should be specified with a toml array of strings. I think "A list" is appropriate here. 

(The description for `settings.ecs.logging-drivers` also says "list")

Now if I think about it. Is it a bad idea to make `no-proxy` a single line string setting and say it should be a comma-separated list?... I'm somewhat inclined to say we shouldn't.

Reviewer 2: Ah, right, sorry.  List!  We should definitely represent a list as a list, not a weird string.

> `NO_PROXY` and `no_proxy` will always include `localhost`, `127.0.0.1`, and `169.254.169.254`
> (Instance Metadata Service endpoint)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The no-proxy list will automatically include entries for localhost and the instance metadata service.
```

> If you are running Kubernetes variants, `NO_PROXY` and `no_proxy` will be appended with the Kubernetes API server endpoint
> and other commonly used Kubernetes DNS suffixes to facilitate intra-cluster networking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're running a Kubernetes variant, the no-proxy list will automatically include the Kubernetes API server endpoint and other commonly used Kubernetes DNS suffixes to facilitate intra-cluster networking.
```

> If you are running the Amazon ECS variants, `NO_PROXY` will be appended with the IMDS endpoint, the Task Metadata Endpoint
>  and the docker socket path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're running the Amazon ECS variant, the no-proxy list will automatically include the task metadata endpoint and the Docker socket path.
```

Reviewer 2: We already mentioned instance metadata.  It raises another question, though - should we include localhost in the ECS list?  We (rightfully) say it'll be on the list, but it's not in ecs.config.

Maybe a better question - does ecs-agent respect no-proxy environment variables?  Can we have ecs.service source the environment file instead of setting up proxying in ecs.config?  (It'd set _additional_ variables, perhaps, but that shouldn't matter.)

If we can't do that, maybe we should add localhost to ecs.config, for consistency.

Reviewer: > Maybe a better question - does ecs-agent respect no-proxy environment variables?

Yes

> Can we have ecs.service source the environment file instead of setting up proxying in ecs.config?

Yes, the `ecs.config` file is just sourced as an environment file in the systemd unit anyway.

Author: Is there any harm in adding the task metadata endpoint to the no-proxy list even when it's a Kubernetes variant or any variant other than ECS?

Letting `ecs.config` set the proxy environment variables has the nice property of separating out the ECS specific no-proxy entries to just the ECS agent service.

Reviewer 2: There could possibly be harm if someone is using that link-local address for their own purposes, but you'd have to go out of your way.  I think it'd be reasonable to have everything in one list.
